In two weeks, I will be deleting my facebook account.

I’ve thought about this for years, and while I love facebook and have gotten so much out of it, as someone who teaches about data I can no longer justify having an account. For me, the final straw was facebook’s decision to exempt politicians from fact-checking. 

Facebook has made it clear again and again that all they value is money. Yes, I know they are a corporation. But they could choose to do the right thing and sacrifice a little profit in order to be a force for good in the world. They have tremendous power to influence people’s lives, and as far as I can tell, they are abusing it. 

[By the way, if you see this post in your feed I’d appreciate it if you’d “like” or “heart” it, because I’ve heard that will boost it in the algorithm.]

I’ll still be active on social media. While I’m deleting Facebook, Messenger, and WhatsApp, I’m keeping Instagram for the time being, I’m on LinkedIn (maybe I’ll figure out what that’s for) and I’m very active on Twitter. 

I’m also starting a little newsletter about my life. My plan is to send an update maybe four times a year. Anyone who I’m friends with on here is welcome to subscribe. It doesn’t matter if we went to high school together and haven’t talked in years, if you’re a coworker from that one summer I tempted at Toyota Financial Services, or you’re one of my far-flung cousins. Somehow it feels like it’s more personal to subscribe to a newsletter than to be facebook friends, but in this transition I’m trying for more personal connection. Here’s the link: [redacted]

It’s strange that I feel something like grief as I leave facebook. I joined in 2006, and have logged in almost every day since. My relationships and friendships are documented here. Facebook has allowed me to watch the kids of Unitarian friends from Los Angeles grow up. It helped me meet up with a friend I know from the University of Cincinnati who was visiting Minneapolis from Italy. Facebook suggests events I might otherwise not have heard of. It connects me with family near and far. 

But, I give talks about Algorithmic Inequality, and facebook perpetuates that. 

The reason for the two-week delay is to allow me to gather my things. I’ve already downloaded my facebook data and am backing that up in a couple spots. I’m planning to go through photos I’m tagged in and save some of those. Once I have the digital files I’ll be getting favorite pictures printed out. I want to make sure I capture people’s birthdays on my calendar.

It’s also a chance for you to check in, say bye, give me your email address or cellphone number or weird newsletter subscription link. I am really going to miss the connections! So let’s stay connected.